[Music]
Welcome to Perspectives from HSBC.
Thanks for joining us. And now on to
today's show.
Hello everyone. Thanks for joining HSBC
podcast series of perspectives. Today's
episode is being recorded behind the
scene at the HSBC Global Investment
Summit happening in Hong Kong. My name
is Jing Newu, HSBC chief China
economist. I'm very pleased to be joined
by Ku Jing, professor of economics at
Harvard University and Hong Kong
University of Science and Technology. So
today we're going to talk about China's
economic development and its new
playbook. Hi K, great to be with you
Jing. We have a lot to talk about.
Nowadays we see a lot of trading
partners um you know in addition to US
start to complain about China is getting
too competitive in it export and some
people are saying that China is
exporting deflation apparently um
especially with the US China trade
tension. Um some other economies start
to worry about they might see more
inflow of Chinese goods that could to
some extent um put some pressure on
their um domestic manufacturing. So
what's your view on this? I do believe
that there is a structural issue at
heart that needs to be solved over time
for the benefit of China and for the
rest of the world and indeed to maintain
China's position as a global player in
the world that the model is steered
towards scaling up supply. Right? the
whole the local governments are not
incentivized to spend as much on social
services as they are in nurturing
champions whether it's BYD or NEO or
deepseek although deepseek is not
actually backed by local governments but
the idea plan exactly the idea is to
nurture these kind of companies but they
really should be spending more on social
services to give a boost in demand and
also Chinese companies are really
competitive and it has very little to do
with subsidies if you look at majority
of manufacturing 90% of manufacturing um
companies there is no overinvestment
actually it is responding to market
forces the 10% is in some of the new
sectors um uh but in general um that's
going to cause tension the fact that
China absolutely dominates so much in
manufacturing is going to um be a
problem for other developing countries
and I think there will be a backlash
until they they structure that um they
they address that imbalance and how to
do that Well, I mean the easiest way is
still coming back to domestic demand,
but maybe they need to have some
voluntary restraints on exports as well.
That's a very interesting point you're
mentioning because we also noticed that
uh China seems to be trying to address
the issue with both the demand side and
supply side. On the demand side, um it's
a pivot towards stimulating consumption
might be one way and it also start to
talk about sector specific measures in
order to cut the capacity and as you
said maybe restrict the export. Does
outbound direct investment also play a
role? I think outbound direct investment
is very much encouraged um by the rest
of the world. Well, with the exception
of countries that don't welcome Chinese
money, which is I think is not not
smart, but you know that's the fact. Um,
if you look at around the developing
world, actually in the world today,
there's a massive deficit in investment,
right? Agreate investment in the world
is down especially to developing
countries and um some country needs to
fill that gap. I think China is very
interested in doing so by not only
investing but maybe bring some of its
technology but they really need to
obviously help the local economy um
build its own economy on its own feet
and so uh I think that should continue
that's a very different uh set of issues
from exporting goods where developing
countries could also manufacture those
things as well. Yeah, this uh kind
resemble what Japan did uh in the last
century. Japan ramp up the outbounded
direct investment after plaza called and
then as an alternative to the export. Do
you think China will uh kind of u look
into that kind of solution? I don't see
where it could be a substitute for for
exports because you know um investment
abroad is obviously you know buying
assets uh globally uh which is good for
diversification of of Chinese uh wealth
but um it has a very different
implication from uh Chinese suppliers
and Chinese companies being able to sell
to the rest of the world. But one thing
that we do need to keep in mind is that
China is actually looking more and more
like a big and rich country. So if you
if you look at its export share of GDP,
it's actually falling uh over time and
converging to the US and Europe, which
means that it's absorbing um more of its
own uh own goods. And I think that's
just a trend that it will continue. Um,
I think they just need to think about
whether I I still come back to this
model issue, right? Because does 80
cities in China, do 80 cities really all
need to do EVs, you know? Um, do they
all need to do uh uh solar panels
because it's a policy? So there is too
much competition because there's a lot
of resources to vote on one thing. So
rather than doing the same thing, they
can they can they should find how to do
complimentary things as well. Um so
there there are lots of things uh in the
economy that can still be adjusted to
address this problem. There seemed to be
a lot of focus on stimulating the
domestic demand in particular on
consumption side and actually just
several days after the national people's
congress uh China rolls out a very
comprehensive plan on stimulating the
consumption. So can you uh discuss uh a
little bit about that? Yeah. Well, first
of all, I think that China's model or
let me be precise, political economy
model is really brilliant at scaling up
supply and quite weak at raising
personal uh consumption and therefore
demand and that has caused a lot of not
only domestic issues but raised some
international uh uh controversies as as
well. Um consumption is the big focus
now. The government is steadfast focused
on raising consumption. That was very
different from let's say 10 20 years ago
where the focus was much more on supply
on the firms. You know the whole economy
was geared to subsidize supply basically
and a very weak uh focus on demand. Now
there's a cyclical and structural
component to raising consumption that I
think deserves a
differentiation. Cyclally in the last
few years a lot of it was precautionary
saving. Um it was due to uh uh low wages
or low growth in real wages uh and uh
also expectations about the future. I
think people's expectations about jobs
in the future is not as rosy it was
before. So they want to save uh and of
course uh the household balance sheet
was also weakened by the real estate um
uh uh downturn. more fundamentally it's
the rural population hundreds of
millions of people who still have a lack
of access to social insurance and social
infrastructure. Now if we dig a little
bit deeper um it also stems from the tax
structure which I think that has to be
reformed as well a very narrow tax base
um uh income tax base u but also the
government is heavily reliant on
indirect taxation like VAT so um direct
taxation which helps with redistribution
is quite weak and then the secondary
redistribution through social insurance
is obviously also inadequate given that
rule um consumers have what an average
of 5% % of an average pension of the
urban household. Um, and also the 300
million migrant workers, you know, they
they have even if with the same income
as an urban worker, they spend only
onethird of that equivalent of
consumption of urban
worker. So, um, this is the focus of the
current government. So, I want to follow
up on that. Uh, actually this sounds
like a very ambitious plan. When we look
at that, there's a mention of uh in the
future the uh migrant workers and their
families can tap into the basic public
services uh basically according to um
their permanent residents. In the past,
we have seen China trying to push
forward the uh household registration
reform but with limited success. So what
makes it different this time?
First of all, um there's a real
intention that they need to stabilize
the real estate problem. Um and there
is, you know, sufficient demand if
urbanization can continue and the rural
population can be properly integrated
into the formal economy. Um but also I I
still think that there are challenges
because local governments, they operate
in their own kind of autonomous sort of
way like any other government. They care
about social
stability. Maybe this is very um
politically incorrect to mention this,
but it's kind of like the immigration
issue, right? When you have lots of
people coming into their jurisdiction,
what do they do about local employment
and jobs and stability and so forth? So,
I think there's some challenges, but one
example is in Tangin, they want to um
obviously stabilize the real estate
sector. So one policy they proposed was
well anyone who buys a property here can
have access to local schools that will
stimulate a lot of demand. So you see
that there's still a lot of controls in
place in China even in the first tier
cities uh in property and the social
infrastructure and if you loosen them
there will be a proper rebound of
domestic demand. Yeah. uh mentioning
about the school choice uh it just
remind me of another city the capital
city of inner Mongodia which actually
roll out this uh um subsidies for child
care including if a family have three
children then they can pretty much
choose wherever their kids go to school
so it's also a big step for Chinese
government to start subsidize the child
care and maybe elder elderly care as
well yeah well I think that's the right
thing to do I think that China has to
learn from other countries that have
been relatively successful in raising
fertility and obviously uh providing
child care services obviously gives more
uh freedom to the working uh women of
the household and um this is the kind of
social services that will not only
stimulate things like fertility but also
uh uh free up some resources for demand.
So I think lots of lessons to be learned
from those countries. Do you think um
you know what type of structural reform
would be necessary in order to uh push
China to make those changes? Like in the
past uh probably if one uh city
government managed to uh invite more
manufacturers to set shopping in their
place then they actually get rewarded by
tax and many other things. So what needs
to be changed?
It is true that unless a few
fundamental core challenges in the
Chinese economy is not resolved over
time, you're going to continue with that
imbalance whether China's economic weak
or economically uh strong. And one is
the relationship between local and
central government. Uh local governments
still have the burden of doing taking up
the majority of the expenditure and the
social and local economy. But um it
obviously relied in the past a lot on
land sales and real estate as a source
of revenue and uh they had to ramp up a
lot of debt to undertake that those kind
of responsibilities. But maybe the local
government KPI should be changed from
looking at GDP growth and investment to
other things maybe maybe consumption
maybe you know jobs uh you need to think
these things through but it has to be
more balanced um approach. I think that
another fundamental reform should be the
redistribution system taxation. Um I
think still lots of people are not
paying taxes and direct income taxes is
not very strong as a redistributionary
force. Uh a lot of the wealthy people
are not really paying very high uh uh uh
uh tax rates. It's actually in the end a
bit regressive given that the tax system
relies a lot on global issue. Yeah, it
is a global issue but China is not going
to escape from that. But actually
Chinese um taxation is more regressive
than in many other advanced economies.
But again coming back to the the social
uh protection, social insurance um you
know once people think that they have
sustained rising wages and employment um
security they're obviously going to be
more free to to spend. Um that will boo
uh some kind of consumption. What about
housing market? Are you still worried
about the housing market? The real
estate downturn I think is the really
the primary factor causing China's
cyclical economic downturn uh in the
last few years because the property
sector really went beyond property
unlike in other countries which all had
their ups and downs in property because
it represented two core pillars of the
economy a shadow fiscal system and a
shadow financial system. something like
90% of local government debt is tied to
real estate and 70% of national debt is
tied to real estate. And talking about
this coming back to this mayor economy,
political economy model, there was an
urbanization craze. They actually went
through they went from industrialization
crates to urbanization crates because
property became an even easier source of
revenue. And so when that came down, it
brought really down two uh pillars of
the economy. So stabilizing real estate
is absolutely crucial in a good
scenario. Five to seven years stabilize
China can move on. Now we already seen
signs five to seven years counting
starting from 2022. So we're
halfway in the good scenario and that's
coming from international data. A bad
scenario would be 10 years. So um I
think uh if you look at the wealth
effect uh uh you know if if Chinese
people's wealth really dropped by a
third that has major consequences on
consumption as well. So you really need
to stabilize real estate to build that
foundation for a stable um a rebound.
but also to mention that um you're
seeing signs of a transition already uh
in the economic structure a bit away
from the real estate into broadly
categorizes high-tech sector. So the
government coming back to the recent um
uh uh congress uh uh really is focusing
on two things consumption so domestic
demand and productivity based on
innovation. Yeah, indeed we have seen
some green shoots in terms of housing
stabilization and uh in terms of
business confidence. I think deepse
disruption really has made a big
difference. Well, it was interesting
because I was still debating um foreign
policy on peak China, the concept of
peak China and went from peak China to a
few months later deepseek moment, a
major pendulum swing. And I keep keep on
having to remind the western audience
that this is what always happens uh when
you predict China like that you know
going from collapse oops no second
edition collapse oops no third edition
then peak China oh and then deepseeek
and suddenly everybody's interested in
China again right yeah nobody's talking
about China is uninvestable no not
anymore and that was the major clients
are asking me about what's going on in
China what kind of a the next deepseink
moment will be exactly so this is What
I've been trying to argue that China's
fundamentals are there. China's
long-term potential is there. Just look
at the people, the skills, the hard
work, the the scale, the market, the
innovation. Yes, in the short term,
confidence has been the major hindrance
to the Chinese economic situation. But
that's also very hard to rebuild, of
course, but the fundamentals are there.
It's a very different uh country from
just the normal countries that fall into
the middle income trap. Yeah. Indeed, I
think uh nobody would expect all of a
sudden tech companies and other type of
companies are interested in increase of
capex because of the deep sea because of
the potential of integrate AI into their
production. Actually deep sea caught the
world by surprise but I don't think it
caught China by that much of a surprise.
Of course Chinese people were very were
thrilled because you know hey look at
what happened to these export controls
and tech restrictions. China is still
able to to make these um major um uh
achievements. Uh because if we look in
live in China and observe that the daily
lives, you know, innovation is happening
here and there all the time.
Breakthroughs small and large are at
every level. So um that's something to
keep in mind and it does permeate
throughout the the economy. The the
interesting thing is that I don't think
this is head-on competition with the US,
right? US does these breakthroughs more
systematic
um model based but Chinese applications
are really really useful because
ultimately uh the success of a
technology and how much it actually
impacts the economy depends on how much
it's adopted how accessible it is and
how much it permeates throughout society
and everyday lives and Chinese
applications and and Chinese technology
are very much suited for that because I
think the approach of Chinese innovators
start first start from trying to address
a problem, solve a problem and um and if
we look at much of the developing world,
it really isn't about access to advanced
technologies that matters, but it's
really about adop adoptability.
Very interesting. Uh since you mentioned
about the USChina rivalry, maybe we can
end with that question. So, do you think
it's still possible for China and US to
reach a deal? What would the deal look
like?
uh you know it's very interesting that
Mr. Trump uh or President Trump
uh his view of China seems to be
evolving over time. We don't really know
but I think that in terms of competition
it's always going to be there. US and
Japan competition was quite ferocious uh
in major tech sectors but it really
pushed US to improve US to spend a lot
more on its innovation system and reform
its innovation system and in turn so did
Japan and as a result we all have
cheaper better products so for investors
at least from what I'm observing if I
were an investor I think about being in
both camps if I can to the extent
possible because there'll be some that
will be successful on China and the
and you just don't know. You don't know
which one because both have its
respective advantages. But it's also on
a more sanguine note, it's also less
likely that they're going to converge um
uh rather than move in parallel. Thanks
for sitting down with us and discuss all
those interesting issues today. Hope to
see you again in the near future.
Thanks.
Thank you for joining us for this
episode of Perspectives. Make sure
you're subscribed to HSBC Global
Viewpoint to stay connected.
[Music]